Beverly Jenkins

                 Cell: 2992960316

Cognizant Technology Solutions, Pune

       Email: Beverly.Jenkins@gmail.com



Career Objective

To seek a responsible position, where I could use the best of my potential, talent and on the very point give me the opportunity for exploring the dimensions for personal and professional development with achievement for companys goal and objective. 



Experience Summary

Working as an Application Support Analyst with a demonstrated history of working in IT industry, having 8 + years of experience in .Net Application support.

Providing support for various web based applications used in HealthCare solutions and insurance.

Strong Hands on Experience in SQL.

Good Understanding of Web technologies like IIS/Web sphere/Tomcat/Apache Middleware technologies.

Working knowledge of Windows, UNIX, SNOW, Nimsoft and SOAP UI.

Working knowledge of SPLUNK for analyze and monitor a wide variety of data like application logs, web server logs,  Syslog, Windows events and alerts.

Hands on in experience in resolving alerts (Geneos/Nimsoft/Splunk) for server and application related issues.

Supporting Batch processes in all forms via Batch Scheduling Tools such as AUTOSYS.

Having vital and extensive knowledge on batch Job monitoring for various Jobs such as data processing, file movement, schedule respective jobs etc making a mark to ensure that all the SLAs are met within the stipulated time window.

Possessing hands on experience on all the troubleshooting aspects with respect to the Application and run time issues faced for both Production and Non Production environments.

Having an extensive knowledge of Application Support responsibilities, based on the ITIL Framework Incident management and Change Management, Problem Management, Release Management, Risk Management.

Ensuring application and system support are available to the user community as per the agreed SLA's and KPI.

Involved in application compliance with internal and regulatory obligations on a regular basis.

Good communicator with excellent analytical and learning skills.



Work Experience



Company

Period

Cognizant Technology Solution

:Apr-2015 to Present

Tata Consultancy Services

:Feb-2011 to Mar-2015

Expedien e solutions(Non-IT Profile)

:Aug-2008 to Aug-2010



Work History

Organization

: Cognizant Technology Solutions.

Job Title

: Senior Application support.

Team size

: 12

Duration:

: Apr,2015  Current

1.

:Project Title



: Web Solutions Interface/Constituent web Solutions

Role and Responsibilities:

Responsible for end to end health checks of the Web and batches, monitoring and managing various Autosys jobs, application/database, Infrastructure, troubleshoot and fixing issues based on the SLA and fulfill requests raised by the users working on the applications.

Following the practices of end to end to end Incident management including high priority and critical incidents (based on the SLA, doing initial investigation and notifying users and keeping them updated till issue resolution. In case of any issue need to be fixed in the future managing incidents based on the problems as part of Problem management.

Single point of Contact in team during Go Live.

Keeping the run book and knowledge articles updated for the issues that are already in place for theknown workarounds. Creating new KA and providing knowledge transfer with the team.

Working on the issue investigation and analyzing based on the SLA, providing requested data, managinguser accesses and providing ad hoc tasks as part of service requests management as daily BAU activity.

Coordinating with Dev, business and other stakeholders for any change related to applications inproduction and infrastructure by doing the impact analysis and planning for the changes well in advance.

Participating in change management calls and releases and also participation in infrastructure maintenance activities. Check the applications and database server status after post maintenance activities.

Working on the Geneos / Nimsoft/ Splunk alerts and fixed the issue that is known and escalating to the server or DBAteam in case of hardware or database issues.

Assist customers with front end application issues and troubleshooting configuration issue and providing fix, changing customization, that are web based and also technical issue.

Actively involved in Batch Job monitoring and troubleshooting different scenarios as per the requirement to produce the required result as per client satisfaction.

Maintain a knowledge base of known defects, issues, process, techniques etc. Update and manage problem tickets appropriately.

Conducting knowledge transfer periodically to increase the technical competency of the team member.

Participating in weekend activities like BCP / Connectivity testing, Migration activities, and Infra maintenance activities with team members.

Adhere to defined standards and measures for quality and customer satisfaction requirements.

Resolve incident tickets within Stipulated SLAs.

Conduct post major incident reviews after successful closer of incident and ensure that there is no reoccurrence of such type of scenarios if there is any fallout.

Providing daily customer support and handling customer queries in order to ensure customer satisfaction.



` 2.

Project Title

Project Title

: Trizetto elements (TMS),EDM,EDM Ngen.

Job Title

: Senior Application support .

Team size

:12

Duration

:Apr,2015  Current





Role and Responsibilities:

Performing root cause analysis and systematic troubleshooting, so that the issues are resolved as quickly as possible.

Handling client call/Urgent meeting.

Handling escalated IM and MIMs.

Automation of manual activities using macro and VBA application.

Monitor servers and application for issues through use of alerts or researching of reported issues
Level 2 support which involves resolving any issues occurred from an application environment perspective by performing root cause analysis and remedial actions and engaging other teams (SA, DBA or AD) if required .

Developed run books and maintained knowledge base for Application Support.

Developed various process and procedures within team to avoid EIM call.

Prepared weekly reports and discussion with project managers to improve quality of service.

Training the new members in the team and getting them productive quickly.

Monitoring the incidents to ensure that the Service Level Agreements are met and creating RCA documents thereby ensuring that it reaches to all resolving groups and stakeholders for proper workaround.



Work History



Organization

:Tata Consultancy Services

Job Title:

: Senior Application Support Analyst.

Team size

:9

Duration:

: Feb-2011 to Mar-2015

1.

:Project Title



: Contract Online Routing Tool (CORT).









Role and Responsibilities:

Worked in production Support project for Microsoft internal application, provided level 2 supports to the users on the predefined SLA.

Assist customers with front end application issues that are web based.

Interact with internal teams and external 3rd party vendors to trouble shoot and resolve complex problems.

Investigate and provide solutions for Continual Service improvement to product team.

Ensure Microsoft security requirements are met.

Coordinating with various teams like infrastructure support teams and other technology teams to get production issues solved within SLA.
Involved in finding the bug which could hamper the business functionality and inform to Development team.
Involved in writing scripts to reduce the manual work.
Provided timely feedback and reports to senior management. Feedback includes but not limited to incident descriptions, executive summaries, detailed timelines, action plans, workarounds and resolution of incidents

Worked closely with onshore Service Delivery Managers as well as the other infrastructure and application delivery teams to ensure that best practices and world class process & procedures are established and followed

Provided 24x7 on-call Support for Major Incident Management, significant Disaster Recovery escalations and provided input/recommendations to improve capability.



` 2.

Project Title

Project Title:

: Physical examination System for Japan.

Job Title:

: Application support Analyst.

Team size

:9

Duration:

:Feb-2011 to Mar-2015





Role and Responsibilities:

Worked as a shift Lead.

Provided User information and data from database using Sql Queries.

Work closely with Application Development team to diagnose bugs and provide patches to customers.

Maintain system documentation and provide production metrics reporting

Research root cause and suggest corrective action to further enhance the customer experience and improve product.

Identification whether the reporting incident is an issue to the supporting application or not. If required, re-directing to the concerned team or the first level of support.

Coordinate with infrastructure team During Maintenance activities
Involved in Infrastructure related tasks/projects in co-ordination with global team.







Technical Skills

Skill Set

: MS SQL, Windows Server, IIS, UNIX.

Tools

: Splunk Enterprise, NIMSOFT, Geneos, CA AUTOSYS, Idash, SOAP UI, Service NOW, IBM WAS console, Aqua Data, Sql Management Studio

Additional Skills

: ITIL, Six Sigma Yellow Belt , Ms Excel.







Educational Background

Degree

College

Board/University

Year

%age

MCA

A N College

Magadh University

2008

72

B.Sc.

S N S College

BSBA

2004

61

Intermediate

DC College

BIEC

200

71

Class  X

S.R.D.C

BIBC

1998

61