David Conrad








davidconrad@gmail.com

(765) 698-0632

Cary, NC





Executive Summary





Detail oriented, hands on, quick learner and motivated individual with 12 years of experience in Systems Analysis/ Design and Development with efficient problem solving abilities. Looking for an aspiring career in the field of Data Science to produce superior results leveraging my functional and technical abilities.



Education, Certifications, and Professional Affiliations







DECA-DS  DELL EMC certified Data Science Associate [April 2017]

OBIEE   Oracle Business Intelligence Foundation Suite 11g Essentials [August 2013]

CSM - Certified Scrum Master, Scrum Alliance [November 2011]

INS 21  Property and Liability Insurance Principles, AICPCU/IIA [December 2009]

SCEA 1.4 - Sun certified Enterprise Architect 1.4, Sun Microsystems [December 2008]

SCDJWS  Sun Certified Developer for Java Web Services, Sun Microsystems [August 2008]

SCJP 5.0  Sun certified Java Programmer, Sun Microsystems [December 2007]

B.E - Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science, University of Madras, India [May 1999]



Professional Summary







12 years of IT experience in full life cycle of software development.

11 years of insurance domain experience.

6 years of experience working in product development (Insurance).

Worked in companies with 100 employees with extremely less/ immature processes.

Worked in companies with 10000 employees with mature processes.



Areas of Expertise







System Design and Analysis

Team Leadership

Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)

Sparx EA - Unified Modeling Language (UML)

Data Analysis and Business Intelligence



Skill sets







Platform:Java SE, Java EE

Languages:Java, R, Python, SQL

Relational Database:Oracle, DB2, MySql, MS SQL Server

ETL & Analytics:Informatica PowerCenter, Tableau, SSIS, Cognos Impromptu

Big Data:Hadoop, Map Reduce, HDFS, Pig, Hive, Spark

No-SQL Database:MongoDB

XML Parser:DOM, SAX

Messaging & Protocols:JMS

Build Tools:Ant, Maven

Operating Systems:Linux, Mac OS X, Unix, Windows

Web Framework:Struts, Spring, Tiles, Taglib 

Web Services:Spring Web Services, XFire, SOAP

ORM & Caching:Hibernate, JDO

Paradigms:OOP, Agile with Scrum, Continuous Integration, Test Driven Development, Waterfall

Testing:Junit, DBUnit, Cactus

App Server:WebSphere App Server, Apache Tomcat, Weblogic, JBoss AS

SCM:SVN, Git, CVS

IDE:Eclipse, IBM RAD, MyEclipse 

Web Others:XML, JSON, XSLT, XSD, XSL, XPATH, XHTML, HTML, DHTML, DOM, CSS, JavaScript

Industries:Financial services  consumer loans, Insurance  P & C /Life, Telecommunications





Experience



       



Stay At Home Parent May 2012- Present



Obtained DELL EMC Data Science Associate professional certification.

Obtained OBIEE (Oracle Business Intelligence Foundation Suite 11g Essentials) professional certification.

Completed online courses in Udemy, Coursera and MongoDB.



Sentry Insurance, Madison, WIDec 2010  April 2012

Senior Programmer Analyst



Participated in requirements gathering, business analysis and user meetings, discussing issues to be resolved and translating user inputs into ETL and Report design documents.

Designed and developed mapping, transformation logic and processes for implementing business rules and standardization of source data from multiple systems into the data warehouse.

Worked closely with Data Architects to understand the future state and interdependency of data in the enterprise.

Wrote complex SQL queries in Oracle and SQL Server to find correlations, insights and trends in the customer data to provide meaningful insights.

Worked on dimensional modeling to design and develop STAR schemas by identifying the facts and dimensions. 

Designed logical models as per business requirements using Erwin.

Analyzed data to understand customer behavior and sales pattern using Tableau.

Worked as a SCRUM master for the project.

Created conceptual data models to define business data, entities and business processes.

Worked on Proof of Concept to show the feasibility of Hadoop.



Environment: Java, Hadoop, Informatica Power Center 9, Tableau, Oracle 10g, MS SQL Server, SSIS.



Compuware Corporation, Madison, WIJul 2007  Feb 2010

Systems Analyst/Designer - American Family InsuranceNov 2007  Feb 2010



Designed Claims Processing use cases using JavaEE core patterns and documented in UML standards using Enterprise Architect.

Developed key system use cases and most of the common reusable code across web applications.

Developed and executed junit test cases using EasyMock for the business tier and Spring Mock for the integration tier. 

Analyzed code coverage and performance using Jprobe.

Implemented caching mechanism for the web application using OSCache and EHCache.

Created web service client using XFire and streamlined the process for generating and managing the generated classes.



Environment: Java 5.0, JSP2.0, Struts1.3.8, Tiles, MyEclipse 6.0, XFire, Maven 2.0.8, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 2.0.8, Easy mock, Jprobe, Enterprise Architect 4.1, AJAX, OSCache, EHCache, WSAD 5.0, CVS and DB2 7.2.



Programmer Analyst - Great Lakes Education Loan ServicesJuly 2007  Nov 2007



Conducted and documented Impact Analysis for the requirement by identifying the core system dependencies across the NOS application.

Developed the complete business logic to handle the requirement and executed JUnit test cases to meet the code coverage.

Prepared Test Plan covering all the business scenarios and performed Integration Testing. 



Environment: Java 5.0, EJB 2.0, JSP1.1, Servlets 2.0, Struts1.2, Tiles, RAD 6.0, WebSphere Application Server 6.0, Serena ChangeMan, DB2.



Reasonsoft Inc.May 2006  June 2007

Programmer Analyst - Deloitte Consulting ServiceFeb 2007  June 2007



Developed core system use cases and custom tags for User Interface Framework layer using JSP Custom tags technology.

Implemented various Core Java and J2EE Patterns for the system use cases.

Developed Web Service consumer to retrieve existing case data from the producer.

Developed and executed JUnit test cases, Integration tests and system tests for the application. 



Environment: Java, JSP 1.1, Servlets 2.0, Custom Tags, EJB2.0, XML, Java script, HTML/DHTML, CSS, RAD6.0, Web Services, DB27.1, Websphere 6.0.



Programmer Analyst - American Family InsuranceMay 2006  Nov 2006



Developed core use cases of SIS Life Annuity application using JSP, JSTL, Struts, Spring and Ajax.

Implemented various Core Java and J2EE Patterns for the system use cases.

Developed testing framework for SIS application using JUnit and HttpUnit.

Developed and executed JUnit test cases, Integration tests and system tests for the application. 

Participated in Peer Reviews within team.



Environment: Java, Hibernate 3.0, Spring1.2, AJAX, JSP1.1, JSTL, Struts1.2, Tiles, JBoss 4.0 Application Server, My Eclipse 4.5, Harvest, CVS, JUnit, HttpUnit, Apache Commons, XML Beans, Oracle9i.



Accenture, IndiaOct 2005  Apr 2006

Team Lead - Bellsouth Telecommunications



Created project documents like Solution Specification Document, Joint Interface Document and Interface Functional Document for the broadband domain system.

Prepared high-level design with various UML diagrams like Class diagram, Sequence diagram, activity diagrams using Rational Rose.

Implemented various Core Java and Core J2EE Patterns like Adapter, Factory, Value Object, Business Delegate, service locator, Data Access Object and Session Facade.

Designed the Strategy for Logging and Exception handling. 

Orchestrated the workflow for integration with Broadband domain systems using Yantra solution.

Trained the team on technical Architecture.

Conducted reviews as part of the review panel for all the modules.

Updated and maintained XSL templates for converting into SOAP message.

Used Java Messaging Service (JMS) for communicating over ESB.



Environment: Java, Hibernate 2.1, EJB 2.0, AJAX, JSP, Struts, Tiles, XML, XSL, XPath, WebSphere Application Server 5.0, Yantra Tool, WSAD 5.0, Harvest, Rational Rose 00, Junit, Oracle9i/10g.



FirstApex Technologies, IndiaNov1999  Sep 2005

Technical Lead



Created ETL mappings and transformations to reflect business rules using Informatica Powercenter to move data from multiple sources into target area.

Conducted reviews as part of the review panel for all the modules.

Developed reusable transformations to load data from various data sources to the Data Warehouse.

Scheduled Informatica sessions and workflows using Informatica Scheduler in Business process as Requested in SLA.

Developed ETL routines using Informatica Power Center and created mappings involving transformations like Lookup, Aggregator, Ranking, Expressions, Mapplets, connected and unconnected stored procedures.

Performed feasibility study, prepared use case and represented in the form of UML.

Participated in complete SDLC of the project.

Prepared high level and low-level design with UML diagrams like class diagram, sequence diagram, state chart diagram using Enterprise Architect 4.1.

Designed and developed data abstraction layer using Java Data Objects (JDOs).

Prepared use case and UML diagrams like class diagram, sequence diagram and state chart diagram using Microsoft visio.

Implemented various Core Java and Core J2EE Patterns like Abstract factory, factory method, strategy, visitor, builder, Front controller, Business delegate, service locator, session facade, Transfer Object and Data Access Object.

Deployed Enterprise Archives (EARs) in heterogeneous application server  Weblogic and Jboss Designed the Strategy for Logging and Exception handling. 

Traveled onsite as Technical support  Conducted product discussions and Presented demo on Unit Linked features.

Implemented the feature at the Client site successfully.

Developed and tested Impromptu catalog for reporting purposes.

Won Professional Excellence Award for successful implementation of the project at the client site.

Won team award for Customer Support.



Environment: Java, EJB2.0, KODO-JDO, JMS, XML, XSL, Xpath, Castor, Jasper, AJAX, Quick Rules- Rule Engine Oracle 8i/9i, Weblogic 8.1, Jboss 3.x/4.x, ANT, MyEclipse 4.1, Junit, Starteam, Windows 2000, Enterprise Architect 4.1, Microsoft Visio, IBM Visual Age for Java 3.5 on Windows NT, Cognos Impromptu 6.0, Informatica PowerCenter