Eugene West

E-Mail  :- westeugene@gmail.com

Contact :-+91-8971234673



CAREER OBJECTIVE:



I wish to utilize the best of my talent in intelligent manner to further strengthen my knowledge for achieving heights in my career.



WORK EXPRIENCE





I am currently having   5.10 Years experience in IT Field.





Organization: HSBC SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT CENTER.PVT.LTD



Project:  DATA SERVICE LAYER (DSL)



Working Title                           :   Software Engineer

Client Name                              :   HSBC

Domain                                      :   BANKING AND FINANCIAL SUBSYSTEM.

Total Experience  :  MAY 2016  TILL DATE

Tools                           :   PUTTY,CONTROL M,GENEOS

Technologies/Skills used          :   UNIX, Shell Scripting, SQL, HTML and JAVA.

Devops Tools.                           :  Git,Jenkins,Ansible.









Providing L2 support which includes Monitoring Control M jobs, Geneos alerts and various other jobs running on In-house tools and ensure their completion.

Working on the incidents and provide quick resolution.

Written shell scripts which can save  manual works .

Working on  Minor, Core and Emergency release activities and deployment on weekends and weekdays.

Working on daily service requests from the users and providing the proper solutions.

Providing in-depth analysis to resolve production and application issues.

Sending various reports requested by business.

Analysis of production support related issues, inquiries and requests. 

























Organization: AMDOCS DEVELOPMENT CENTER.PVT.LTD



Project:  SPRINT GSS APPLICATION SUPPORT



Working Title                           :   Software Support Associate

Client Name                              :  SPRINT

Domain                                      :  TELECOM

Total Experience  : JUNE 2015  MAY 2016.

Technologies/Skills used          :  UNIX and  SQL .





Supporting five accounts (Sprint, Mobilicity, MetroPCS, CableVision and Cricket) proactively.

Handling the application related issues and alerts within SLA hours and as well as to provide RCA for the same.

Processing of 2G/3G prepaid and postpaid files (data) in well manner for the stucked/failed or clearing the backlogs.

Troubleshooting the new issues arising with other teams on bridge call and providing proper solution.

Handling the server related issues like disk space, High CPU/Memory utilization.

Acknowledging the EOD Job Failures, providing proper justification for failures and providing fix on the failures.

Investigating billing job failures and billing rejects.

Extracting error subscribers from the specified files for further investigation.

Balance MRC validation for the failure threshold of customers in Time zones.

Handling Internal and External Tickets actively and resolving the customer queries and issues.

Creating Knowledge-based articles and guidebooks for further references.

Managing daily execution status of the team.

Knowledge Transfer to  team by giving presentations.

Synchronizing with onshore counterpart daily with smooth handoff.

Ensuring the team adheres to internal processes and project standards.

Deliver timely and quality services, ensuring client satisfaction





Organization:SYNTEL.PVT.LTD



Project:  Allstate Insurance EMS



Working Title                           : Software Engineer

Client Name                              : Allstate Insurance (United States)

Domain                                      : Insurance

Total Experience   :JUNE 2013  APRIL 2015

Technologies/Skills used          : WEBSPHERE and UNIX. 





Roles and Responsibilities:





Supported the 7 applications (Interlink, Excess and surplus, Ecommerce, Duckcreek, Ivantage, Livesite and Teamconnect) proactively.                                   

Day-to-Day support for production systems  handling system issues, answering queries and monitoring applications to ensure maximum system uptime.

Maintenance, Build Deployment and Up gradation of Unix Based Application.

Stop/start web and application servers on Websphere application Server tool.

Performing web and application server tuning.

Edit web and application server configuration files/settings.

Read web/application server and system log files. Administer/configure security policies for web applications.

PMI Monitoring and VMStat on Websphere application Server.

Updating ACT JDBC Driver properties on Websphere application Server.

Database backup/restoration and other related activities.

Provide technical support to application development team. 

Worked as a Resource with highly professional orientation along with an ability to manage multiple tasks in a pressured environment.

Scheduling job through Crontab and windows scheduler

Up gradation of Production/Non-production Interlink application (UNIX-Based) from old to new updated versions.

Planning and scheduling deployment activities for Duck creek Application.

Maintaining space threshold on UNIX and windows servers.

Attending Incidence Tickets on Priority.

Being Part of ECC Call for High Priority Production Incidents.

Representing Team in Various meeting with Application or testing team for creating deployment/Up-gradation plans.

Creating Implementation plans for the Production Changes/Releases such as Patch-fix, Minor and Major releases.

Preparing guidebooks with new activities/tasks/actions taken to resolve the new issues/requests. 

Impact analysis on Business services due to availability or performance issues.         Modifying the existing scheduled/unscheduled scripts and files as per the requirement of administrative activities or due to upgradation needs of the applications.

Generation of reports on daily, weekly, monthly and quarterly   basis which is helping in continuous regularization and refining parameters and proactively reducing chances of any major issues.

Handled Major/Minor Release management activities for all the applications as IMPLEMENTOR and also as WINGMAN for supporting other Team members.

Worked in flexible shifts and extended the shift beyond working hours as per need.    

Helped team by doing peer reviews and knowledge sharing for resolving the issues.

Taken Individual Ownership of tickets in the queue and ensured timely closure.







EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATION:




EXAMINATION              



    YEAR              


BOARD/UNIVERSITY


      GRADE       

Msc (Computer Science)           

Oct    2014

Pune University           

(Higher second class).

Bsc (Computer Science)           

Oct    2011

Pune University           

(Higher second class).

HSC           

March  2008

Maharashtra     

(Higher second class).

SSC          

March  2006

Maharashtra     

(First class).  







CERTIFICATIONS:



Done certified course of JAVA and Advance JAVA from SEED-InfoTech Institute.

ITIL Basic level certification completed in SYNTEL University.

HADOOP development course from STL SOFT.