Johnny Fontenot

Johnnyfontenot@rediffmail.com  +91 9024142946 

___________________________________________________________________________________________________



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: ( 15 years of Service delivery and application management experience.)



Gaurav work as Global Service Delivery Manager. A lead with guidance, which manages escalation and drives team technically to resolve issues with ownership. A lead which acts as a motivational speaker and look for opportunity in every challenging or difficult situation. A lead who believes in arranging huddle board sessions to brain storm around issues, incidents or problems. He effectively manages upward reporting and at the same time works as good people relationship manager. 



Gaurav brings extensive experience in application management(development / support) in Intellimatch 8.2,9.1 , ETL tools, data warehouse and business intelligence (BI) across various industries in Banking, finance, Automobile and Manufacturing for Barclays, JPMORGAN, CapGemini etc.



Gauravs forte is his broad expertise and strong data analytics experience, leading projects as Project Manager/Senior Business Analyst in Intellimatch, Data Warehouse and Business Intelligence applications.
 Self-motivated with a good technical background and hands-on experience, He has sound leadership, communication and organizational skills along with excellent Business and Data analysis/presentation skills; delivers high quality, smart business solutions by effectively interacting with business users and leveraging on people, processes and technology.



Achieve delivery excellence award in TCS, Barclays and JPMC(Team). 



Following attributes or traits define his aim: 

- Focus on intellectual property, drafting of application support documents, provides fish bone strategy to to work out  

  problem in application or day to day business a-bends.

- Ensure successful application management and production support in a wide variety of business applications. 

- Believe in partnership with business users and various infra and development teams.

- Support onsite/offshore model and expert in motivating others.

- Holds weekly, monthly service review calls with client and users respectively and brain storm people with huddle board meetings.



 Specialties: Makes things easier and make the ball rolling, get work done, strong positive approach in follow ups and ensure faster recovery to achieve consistent delivery. 





Professional Experience:

15+ years of IT industry experience in diversified domains which include Investment Banking, Automobile and  

Manufacturing.

Expertise in application management , breaks management, client money and omd project implementation, service delivery management and partnership management between different teams.

Rich experience on different applications like Sunguard Intellimatch 8.2, 9.1, Reconciliation & ETL tools, BI MIS reporting, Client Money Parking governance application, Motor Holding, Equity pricing, Post Close Adjustment & Calculation of different exchange fees.

Sound Knowledge of financial terminologies and instruments and asset classes.

Expertise in Incident, Problem, Change, Service level and operational level engagements and Configuration

 management and their tools.

Experience in application knowledge base management.

Sound practical knowledge of disaster recovery management and business continuity management.

Excellent partnering and interpersonal skills to ensure successful working relationships across all levels of

 Organization and other working groups.

Handled internal quality auditing and have been actively performing PwC internal audits for data privacy and review technology control and security analysis for access and authorization.

Strong Project planning skills and expertise in multitasking and prioritization of Tasks.

Wide experience on Different type of Projects such as Production Support, Enhancement and Application  

Migration in the capacity of L3 or development analyst.

Seasoned application support and development engineer with hands-on experience in Intellimatch, ETL- Informatica 8.1 and 9.1, Business Objects xi, Unix, SQL, Oracle-Pl/SQL, Autosys and different scripting languages.

Rich experience on over-night batch processing and real-time processing applications.

Expertise in application knowledge transfer on phone or on net meeting.

Huddle board meeting to address team concerns.



Key Competencies

Broad relationship management skills interfacing with senior managers, Front office Back office users, Business Users and global/local IT team.

Strong team and application management skills gained through managing a wide range of projects delivered across diverse business areas. 

Sound track record with clients in aligning application management strategies and delivering solutions with corporate strategic objectives across departments, divisions, and locations.

Result oriented approach, a skilled strategist to transform strategic plans into workable solutions. Sound experience in Business Analysis and Modeling, People/Team Management, IT Governance, Managing change, troubleshooting, quality and process improvement, Strategic planning and Direction, efficient work engagement with global business partners.

Process driven approach to adhere to risk and compliance guidelines and follow change, incident, problem management themes to ensure seamless delivery within SLA and OLA to users / systems.



Accomplishments

TCS - Received star of the month award as soon I joined.

Barclays - Received performance award to automate user deliverables accurately and reduced the execution time from 3 hours to 40 minutes.

JPMorgan - Won the team performance award for NYK and EMEA equity pricing and month end reporting.

Resolved Security Settlement trade issue in BI MIS report & received appreciation from Ops & business. 

Resolved Jumbled currency reconciliation report issue and cut down one incident per day.

Resolved RTNS reconciliation value date issue for unique ids in report.

Successfully started application development and support for three legacy lehman applications from Singapore.

Set up Disaster Recovery environment in JPMChase and Barclays Capital.

Complete ITIL V3 Foundation course.

Achieve automation in most of daily activities.

Automated SLA breach alert in Autosys.

Won stepathelon first team citizenship award from Barclays.



Experience Summary

Duration  (YYYY/MM)

Organization, Location

Designation

2016/16  current

TCS

Global RTB Lead-Barcap, ASOC-C3B

2009/01  2016/03

Barclays Capital, Singapore

Assistant Vice President

2007/04  2008/12

JPMORGAN CHASE, Mumbai

Associate

2006/04  2007/03

CapGemini, Mumbai

Senior Consultant

2001/10  2005/08

RIPL, Mumbai and Nashik

Software Engineer



Education Summary

PGDAC, Mumbai, CDAC-ACTS, Pune (Result: 64.5%,February 2006)

Bachelor of Engineering (CSE), Jiwaji University, Gwalior(Result: 61.2%, June 2000)



Technical Skills 

Application -  Sunguard Intellimatch 8.2 and 9.1 with ETL

Database-  Oracle9i (SQl, PL/SQL, Advance SQl, Architecture, OODA)

-  Sybase IQ, Sybase 12.5,MS SQL Server 97/2003

Reporting-  Business Objects XI and 3.1 Central Management Console and Infoview

ETL-  Informatica 8.6.1, 9.1

Scripting Languages-  Shell Script, Perl Script, Batch script

Operating System -  UNIX Sun Solaris 5.8, Windows 98/NT/2000/XP

Code Promotion -  Clear Case, SCM, Perforce

Editor-  VI EDITOR

Scheduler-  Autosys (Shell and GUI), TNG and WIN AT.

File Transmission-  NDM, SFTP and FTP protocols.



TCS Work Experience:

ASOC-C3B, TCS - PuneRole: Global RTB Lead(team size  29)01-06-2016 till date

Job Profile: 

Manage Barclays Portfolio  Intellimatch 9.1, 8.2, Reconciliation tools, Settlement and Reporting applications.

Bring stability to applications and in team to ensure consistent SLA bound delivery.

Hold huddle meeting to address team concern professionally and technically.

Work as a motivational speaker.

Work as business analyst when required.

Emphasize automation and reduce noise.

Build partnership with user and different teams.



Barclays Work Experience:

AVP, Barclays Capital, SingaporeRole: Team Lead Data Analyst05-01-2009 to 31-03-2016  

Job Profile: 

Manage legacy Lehman applications and Barclays applications like Sungaurad Intellimatch 8.2 and 9.1 Reconciliation, Reconciliation (TLM and Reclite), OMD, Client Money Parking.

Ensure delivery of service (BO reports, recs) according to defined SLA to key stake holders

Ensure completion of data load through automated tools / reports, timely completion of recs, assist in business queries, and troubleshoot queries.

 Played important role in building the Application support and development support team after taking transition at Singapore from NYK.

Acting as guide, motivator and mentor to the Sr. Developer in the team. Promote teamwork and a culture of continuous improvement.

Achieve automation in most of the daily routine jobs.

Perform root cause analysis of the problem and take corrective action.

Strictly follow the incident, change, configuration and problem management process and guidelines.

Assist team members in complex (time bound) situation.

Provide solution to business objects xi / 3.1 queries and regular business queries.

Define code promotions process.

Set up disaster recovery environment.

Create knowledge base of application

Use Autosys job scheduler in UNIX and windows.

Believe in Cross technology and knowledge transfer session to minimize the knowledge gap.

Deliver training on BOXI 3.1,R2 and Informatica 8.6.1 to support team.

Perform Disaster Recovery test for Production and UAT boxes. 

Use SDLC to implement enhancement.

Got the packaged developed for SYBASE IQ dsn and BOXI 3.1, R2 connectivity

Learn financial products, for e.g. Future, forward, options, swaps and now planning for credit derivatives.



Project: IntelliMatch 9.1 (Reconciliation Tool), Jan 2009  Present

Description: intelliMATCH is an account reconciliation application that simplifies the process of account reconciliation. intelliMATCH reduces the time required to perform matching and increases the number of items matched without user intervention.  Users can devote their time to researching and resolving unmatched items, for more accurate and timely reconciliations.

Current Role in IntelliMatch:

1. Troubleshoot Rec failures and user queries.

2. Handing the issues related to the breaks (Out of proof reconciliations) reported by the users.

3. Proactively working on improvement of the support processes and problem management to fix the recurring issues and automating the tasks which require manual intervention.

4. Handling user requirement for the new reconciliation and coordinating with operations change admin team to prioritize the change.



Project: OMD (Operation Metrics Data mart), 05-01-2009 to Present

Description: OMD is used for historical and management metrics reporting of market volumes of trade. Fails

and confirmations of financial market products. Operations users across all three regions use BOXI R2/3.1 to pull

data. Since it is a warehouse of markets volumes for Barclays Capital PLC therefore it has lot of upstream relationship with different financial systems. Trade data is loaded during NYK overnight autosys batch run. OMD receives trade data in the form of files and loads it into the warehouse using the informatica workflow, unix scripts and MSSQL. Data load completion process triggers the Business Objects scheduler to generate the regional automated OMD MIS Reports before the business starts. 

Features -

Automated reports are sent to user in xls and pdf format to different regions before SOD

Business Objects XI reports can be refreshed any time

Reports can be seen in shared drive repository and as an email attachment.



Project: RecLite & TLM (Reconciliation Tool), 05-01-2009 to Present

Description: RecLite is an in-house built matching engine used for reconciliation of high frequency recs. RecLite preprocessing is done in TLMETL which was also the part of preprocessing of TLM recs. It only uses 1-1 matching rules. Preprocessing filtering criteria is defined at the database level. Matching rules in reclite are configured using the xml stored in the linux server.



Project: Client Money Parking, 05-01-2011 to Present

Description: CASSHUB receives daily feeds from different source systems. These feeds are client money requirements in the form of transactions from different source systems. CASSHUB feed processing application uploads these feed files and loads the transactions in database. This data is further used for Total Client Money Requirement calculations, diversification and generating payment instructions.



J P Morgan Chase work experience:

Associate (PM), J P Morgan Chase, Mumbai(& London)    Role: Application Developer Lead                    02-04-07 to 31-12-2008  

Job Profile: 

Played important role in building the offshore Application Support team after taking transition from Bournemouth(Vendor Cognizant) to Mumbai.

Manage team of seven members both technically and professionally.

Assist team members in complex (time bound) situation.

Understand Business Logic and create knowledge base.

Analyze business queries in Business Objects and Oracle

Promote Code using ClearCase.

Use Autosys job scheduler in UNIX and windows

Believe in Cross technology and knowledge transfer.

Deliver cross training on UNIX and Oracle.

Perform Disaster Recovery test for Production and UAT boxes. 

Use SDLC to action WRM and project.

Key contributor in driving down the Total Cost of ownership of Application by bringing automation and suggesting process improvements.

Acting as guide, motivator and mentor to the Sr. Developer in the team. Promote teamwork and a culture of continuous improvement.

Got experience of working in dual management reporting (Local management as well as functional management)



Project: MERIT/AIR-Month End Reporting Information Tool

Description: MERIT provides read-only access to general ledger, allows month-end adjustments to be made to accounts, sends reports to HO in NYK at month-end for corporate reporting. MERIT application consists of MERIT Business Objects, MERIT Overnight Batch, MERIT Outbound Feeds and MERIT Precan Reports.





Project: TPSD-Transfer Pricing Source database

Description: Transfer pricing is the means where the "cost of use" or "credit for provision" of a Business Unit's funds is approximated. The Transfer Price is the Funding Amount, is calculated using a Funding Rate, which is the interest rate at which Treasury provides/receives money to/from the Business Units.

TPSD Functions:- Overnight Batch Calculates funding and daily interest for the Close of Business Balances and Back valuations supplied from various feeder systems. 



EMPLOYMENT BEFORE YEAR 2007



Key Responsibilities: 

Held various positions (Business Analyst, Developer, Designer/ Architect and Lead) in two more organizations. Worked mainly on Application development and support projects, General Motor holding and dealer holding data mart and dial plotting VC++ software. 





Johnny FontenotPage 4 of 4