Carley Atwood

Qualification  MBA IT

Contact  9673384364

Email   carleyatwood@gmail.com 

 

Carley Atwood

Qualification  MBA IT

Contact  9673384364

Email   carleyatwood@gmail.com 

                                                                              

                               









                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      

CAREER OBJECTIVE



To contribute, learn and grow in a professionally managed organization, which offers a congenial environment for enhancement and transfer of skills that I have developed whereby I can prove to be an asset to the organization.



PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY  

 

ITIL Certified Major Incident, Problem & Change management, Database, windows and Network and Mainframe systems in a 24/7 environment. 

Gathered experience in both People and Process management in the ITES industry. 

Outgoing and goal-oriented professional with 7 years of Implementation and Support experience.

Experience in meeting defined SLAs in terms of Availability, Service Continuity, Incident Management and Problem Management 

Experienced also in creating training manuals for new processes. Imparting training for Technical services products.

Adept at working with people across cultures, in India, North America and also in other Asian countries.

Experienced in IIS6 and IIS7, SQL 2005, 2008 and 2012, and Windows server 2003, 2008and 2012.

Effective in both self-managed and team environments.



 CAREER HIGHLIGHTS

Currently Working:



       Allscripts is a HealthCare IT Industry whos clinical, financial connectivity and information solutions for hospitals, physician practices and post-acute organizations are the essential technologies that enable a connected community of health.



Allscripts  Expert Technical Consultant for Enterprise EHR. Since Aug 2011 Till Date.

Incident analysis with the purpose of minimizing incident rate in the application.

Tracking incident information in SFDC (Sales Force) and SNOW (ITIL Based).

Draft technical content for knowledge database.

Knowledge and experience of workflow tools in a large complex environment.

Research the different possibilities for the development of application through the incidents created.

Monitoring and tuning the database and event resolution.

Installation and configuration of companys server software and system component (if not done by the client).

Communicated unresolved problems to the competent technical service, follow-up the resolution of such problems and keep the client posted about the progress made in the case.

Use secure link in order to connect to clients remote server.

Helping the client with Implementation of Version and Hot Fix upgrades.

Acting as Team lead for team of 25 people.

Helping team achieve CSAT by providing exceptional Customer Service and Technical Support

Work on escalations and critical issues related to infrastructure.

Conduct training for team members on different modules and upcoming new releases.

Conduct case resolving sessions to maintain the backlog of the team.

Provide mentorship to freshers within the team.

Report on weekly basis to manager about teams statistics and action plan.

Work on Black Box, Fiddler, Performance Monitor and SQL Server Profiler to do root cause analysis of Performance issues.



Projects Managed: 



1) Shift Left : Worked on Shift Left, CPU utilization, Delta Utilization and Recovery Model set to FULL on certain DBs projects for pro-active support and generate revenue for company respectively.

2) L1 service desk: Worked on L1 service desk Project related to setting up a total new L1 service desk with Process level documentation and Technical troubleshooting documents created.

3) Application Testing: Worked on testing the Enterprise Mobile application with development before implementing this for clients. This Mobile application testing involved IPad and Iphone Devices testing and implementations.

4) Problem Issue cases and Knowledge Article Project: Worked on this project for 4 months and corrected 1100 Defect issues cases and created Knowledge Article for all of them for the process.



Teams Management: Being Team Leader handling daily escalations and any process related queries updates for the team members.

Handling a Team 25 Team members.



Rewards: 



Got Awarded Employee of the Month for the month of Jan-12, Jan-13, Sep-13, Dec-14, Jan-15, Sep-15, April 2016 and May 2017.

Have been awarded with Spot Prize for 7 times within last 6 years.

Got Leadership Value award from internal team Member for the leadership/help guidance to them in order enhance their knowledge with the Product.

Have been rewarded for Employee of the Year for 2014 and 2015.

OS Platforms: Windows Server 2003, 2008 and 2012, IIS 6 and 7.



Database: SQL Server 2008, 2012.



Implementation and Training



1.Installing Hotfix and implementing EHR Application related tools on servers. Ex: SSMT, PMT etc.

2.Providing technical support to clients via phone, mail, remote support and visit.

3.Training users on in depth functionality of CRM.

4.Training internal users on different modules and components of CRM.

5.Deployment of different modules of CRM.

6.Preparing deployment documents for the installation of CRM and also for different components of CRM.

7.Upgrading Clients Application\Tool version after a period.



Customer Service



1.Visit clients quarterly for their feedback.

2.Initiating them with the new enhancements and services.

3.Understanding their requirements and providing them with the best possible solution or upgrade.



Testing and Documentation



1.Reporting bugs and tracking them to closure.

2.Preparing and uploading test reports.

3.Coordinating with developers for debugging of bugs.

4.Testing applications for client-specific standards.

5.Imparting training to trainee QC engineers.

6.Obtaining knowledge of various simulators for mobile platform and tools like Device Anywhere.

7.Conducting knowledge transfer sessions for the QC team with the intent of sharing knowledge and discussing issues about the testing process.



       

TECHNICAL SKILLS



Networking:  MCSA, SQL, IIS, Linux, Windows.



PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE ( 3 Year 4 Month)



1] Jetking Institute: Worked as a Network Trainer for one and half years from May 2008 till Sep 2009.



Training on MCSA syllabus.

Training on Linux RHCA syllabus.

Training on CCNA syllabus, Basic Network configuration for cisco router and switches.



2] Mphasis Pvt Ltd. (Feb 2010 August 2011)

Designation: Technical Support Associate.



Troubleshooting Internet, outlook related issues.

Troubleshooting VPN network problems faced by global customers such as Routing, link down issues, packet drops, WAN/LAN related issues

Troubleshooting Printer configuration related issues.

Working on REMEDY application to check trouble tickets of Customers.



  3] Allscripts-IT Healthcare (August 2011) to till date.

  Designation: Expert Technical Consultant.



ACADEMIC CREDENTIALS 



SSC, Himachal Board Dharamshala.

HSC (Non-Medical), Himachal Board , Dharamshala.

Graduate in Arts from Himachal University.

MBA-IT From ISBM Pune.



CERTIFICATIOINS

Microsoft Certified Network Administrator from Microsoft.

One and half year Hardware and Networking diploma from Jetking Chandigarh.

 Network Infrastructure Management Training in Global Talent Track Chandigarh.

SQL Certification - Microsoft   SQL Server 2012.

ITIL certified.