Eric Gilkerson,                                     

Mob: +91 8585912343

E-mail: eric.gilkerson@hotmail.com

Application Engineer/Developer, ITIL 2011 Foundation Certified                                                                  

                                                                      

                                                                        SUMMARY

Having 4.8+ Years of experience in IT industry of which has domain expertise in Investment Banking and having a good knowledge of Oracle SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX, Shell Scripting,Sybase and Mongodb

Good understanding of SDLC fundamentals and managed service like ITIL process

Self-motivated with able to multi-task and work independently, take initiative to prioritize and resolve problems and Adaptability & willingness to learn and work on upcoming technologies.

Good communication skill and ability to work as team player.

Strong knowledge in Oracle SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting (Bash, Ksh), Crontabs for automation.

Proficient in Unix Shell Commands and SQL DDL, DML 

Knowledge of Functions, Procedures and Cursors.

Experience on AIX, windows server, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.7(RHEL) platform and Web server (Apache Tomcat/IIS).

Experience with Oracle PL SQL development, support and debugging.

MS-office, Open Office, Libre office.



Technical Skill Sets

OS Linux, RHEL 6.7

Webserver: Apache Tomcat,IIS

Scripting Language-Unix Shell Scripting

RDBMS - Oracle 6i/9i/10g/11g/12c, PL-SQL,Sybase,Mongodb

ERP - Oracle Applications 11.5.10.2/R12

Tools - Toad, SQL server, PL/SQL Developer, Control-M, Maximo, Remedy, GSM, Servicenow

FTP Tools -Putty, WinScp

UNIX utilities-Vi editor, awk,sed,cut

Protocol-SS7/Sigtran, FTP,Load Balancer,TCP/IP

WORK EXPERIENCE







Project: Credit Suisse (Investment Banking)

Current Role: Associate

Duration: Dec-2018 to Present

Tools and Technologies: Oracle SQL,Unix Shell Scripting,Sybase,Mongo DB,Salesforce,Deployment,IIS Web server,Control-M,Git,CI/CD

Description: Working on Application implementation and support in CI/CD module



Working on Oracle,Sybase for Data analysis and troubleshooting user queries.

Working on Spuds and IRMA(DevOps) for deployment.





Project: Intelligent Network (Amdocs IN)

Current Role: Senior Engineer

Duration: June-2018 to Nov-2018

Tools and Technologies: Oracle SQL,Unix Shell Scripting,SS7/Sigtran ,Amdocs IN,Blue Prism

Description: Worked as an Integration and Support Engineer and supporting 15 circles in India for Amdocs IN prepaid environment



Responsible for daily operation and maintenance of all IN servers (i.e. SDP, SGU, SLU,DGU,DSLU,Mediation HLR,LBA,SAPIs and SDP).

Writing Oracle SQL simple and advanced queries and providing data and reports as requested by different Vodafone circles.

Good knowledge of Shell scripting and deployed various scripts like partition alert, network alert, SQL queries, daily server health check-up, current CDR files process and node process check in 15 Vodafone circles.

Performed configuration for all IN nodes and take proper restart of all the nodes to troubleshoot issues.





Project: MEA and APAC Transactions operation

Current Role: Associate Engineer

Duration: July-2016 to June-2018

Tools & Technologies: Toad, UNIX Shell Scripting, Pl/SQL, Putty, Oracle SQL Developer, SQL, Maximo, WINSCP, Oracle Linux Server, Windows server,Git,SVN,Tivoli Workload

Scheduler

Description- Worked in Technical operations and supporting all APAC payments transaction operations 

Worked on technical analysis, development, implementation and integration on Oracle SQL, UNIX and PL/SQL production system and experience in supporting systems that run on Linux Environment.

Worked on web-related technologies including WebSphere, Apache, Tomcat and trouble shoot web related issues.

Involved in multiple release and deployment of hotfix, change and releases in production servers to Make critical system updates/changes, and work closely with developers and DBAs during these implementations and performing all pre and post validation.

Interacted with various team, stakeholders and providing RCA for the problem tickets.

Monitored jobs on Tivoli Workload Scheduler and analyzing failed Scheduled jobs.

Worked on UNIX Shell Scripts for daily issues and ability to identify tasks which require automation and automate them like automation of queue (backlog) monitoring, Mount point space and other manual tasks.

Scheduled and modifed the oracle database jobs and Crontab in UNIX.

Wrote SQL queries and PL/SQL blocks to extract, correct, or update customer data in Oracle 10g and Oracle 11g databases using Oracle SQL Developer and Toad and performing daily BAU's.



Project :  Scottish Power                                         

Role Played:  Application Engineer

Duration: Jan-2016 to June-2016

Tools & Technologies:Toad,CSG(IME),Remedy,Unix,AIX 4.3,Control M,Shell Scripting,Pl/SQL,Putty,SQL developer,sql plus,windows server 2003

Description- Worked on Scottish Power and networking project.

End to End (24*7) support, technical analysis, development, implementation and integration on Oracle SQL, UNIX and PL/SQL production system.

Responsible for day-to-day, space maintenance, file systems maintenance, File transfer, server monitoring, user administration.

Involved in Testing of new Servers and month end password change process of all the servers.

Build and maintain SQL scripts and complex queries for data analysis, extraction and troubleshooting as requested by the users.

Good understanding of UNIX file manipulations, analyzing corrupt files and SQL queries to assist troubleshooting.





Project: Airtel Africa Operations (Mediation)

Role Played: Application Engineer (L1 Production Support)                                                                                 Duration: Mar-2015 to Dec-2015

Tools & Technologies: Toad,CSG(IME),Maximo,MaxIT,Unix,Linux,AIX 4.3,Shell Scripting,Pl/SQL,Putty,SQL developer,Telecom Mediation 

Description- Worked on Telecom Mediation Project.

End to End (24*7) support, technical analysis, development, implementation and integration on UNIX and SQL production system.

Escalation handling on recovery call and service delivery within SLA.

Responsible for day-to-day systems maintenance, space maintenance, file systems maintenance, file transfer, server monitoring.

Worked on shell scripts like File Sequence Check, Process log to make amendments for any change in configuration.

Experience in writing SQL queries, PL/SQL Functions, Procedures and Packages and Unix Shell Scripting





Project :    Airtel Africa Transformation Project

Client:    Airtel Africa

Role Played:    Oracle Developer

Duration:    August 2013 to September 2014

The main aim of this project was to transform the 17 different IT environments across Airtels African operations into an integrated IT system.

Experience in development, customization and deployment of Oracle Reports using Report Builder 10g.

Pl/SQL Functions,Procedures,Packages and Cursors.

Unix File handling.



Employment



Company Name

Duration

Designation

Cognizant Tech 

Dec-2018 to Present

Tech Lead

Vodafone India Ltd

June-2018 to Nov-2018

Senior Engineer

MasterCard Technologies

July-2016 to June-2018

Associate Engineer

Maintec Inc

Jan-2016 to June-2016

Application Engineer

Softenger(I) Pvt Ltd

Dec-2014 to Dec-2015

Application Developer/Engineer

Dhanush Infotech Pvt Ltd

Aug-2013 to Sept 2014

Oracle Developer





  ACADEMIC OVERVIEW

Qualification

Institute

Year

Marks Obtained

B.TECH

Punjab Technical University

52371088066

64.00%





INTERNSHIP: IBM India PVT limited                   Client: Manthan

Role Played: TEST Engineer                             Duration: JUNE 2012 to NOV 2012

I have done 6 months of internship on Siebel in IBM, KOLKATA

During my training program in Manthan broadband service, I played the role of Test Engineer. During this program I tested the Customer Acquisition Form on Siebel User Interface. The Purpose of this project is to understand SIEBEL and to test the Customer Acquisition Form for Manthan Broadband Service Under the surveillance of IBM.



INTERESTS AND STRENGTHS

My areas of interest are

 Traveling

 Photography