Curriculum Vitae



Damian Brackett

Pune, India

 :+91 9922931521     |    : brackettdamian@gmail.com





CAREER SNAPSHOT

An accomplished and enthusiastic professional with 8.5 years of experience in IT industry.

Over 6.5 years of production/application support experience in dealing with UNIX, PL-SQL technologies.

Almost 2 years of software development experience in Java technologies.

Expert in providing IT Production Support, Systems Support, Service Management & leading teams.

Profound knowledge of BFSI, UNIX Expertise and Shell Script Support.

Well Versed with Service Request, Incident, Problem, and Change Management with 24*7 Supports. 

Excellent Analytical, consulting & Interpersonal skills; team player with ability to foster teams performance

Outstanding problem solving techniques with enthusiasm towards continuous quality improvements

Excellent skills in complex issue investigation, root cause investigation; implement productivity ideas, code fix, co-ordination with other team, guide team members, prepare training plan, Knowledge Management and client communication.

Exceptional understanding of criticalities and providing solutions within the stringent timelines.

Handling crisis calls, Pivotal in running crisis calls and driving it to completion.

ITIL V3 Foundation Certification.



FUNCTIONAL EXPERTISE

Technical Solutions 
Productivity
Incident/Program Management
Training Plan

Team Work
Requirements Analysis
Documentation Management
Knowledge Management


Root Cause Analysis
Quality Assurance
Application Designing


TECHNICAL EXPERTISE



Databases:

Oracle

Languages:

SQL

Operating Systems:

Windows9x, Windows 2000/7, Windows XP, UNIX.

Tools:

Introscope Wily, AppDynamics, Splunk, Plexus, BSM, Control-M, IBM RAD, WebSphere Portal Server v6.0, MKS, SQL Developer, Eclipse, Windows Server, Netzza, Putty and Tectia.

Applications:
Web Technologies    
Scripting  

Lotus notes, Same Time, Skype, Global Service Desk, Service Now, Outlook etc.
HTML,JSP,JDBC
JAVA Script.



EDUCATION

Master of Science in Computer Science, Department Of Computer Science, NMU University in First Class.

Bachelor of Science in Computer Science, NMU University in First Class.

SSC and HSC from Nasik Board in First Class.





CAREER TRAJECTORY:-



Organization

Designation

Duration


Wipro Technologies Pune

Senior Software Engineer


July 2017  Till Date

Pioneer Financial Pvt Ltd
Client :- Wipro Technologies

Senior Software Engineer

March 2017 - July 2017

HSBC GLT Pune, India.


Software Engineer

June 2012  February2017

Probity Soft Private Limited.

Software Developer

May 2010  May 2012



KEY PROJECTS:-



At Wipro :- (CITI Bank)

Finance Full Suite (FFS) :- [January 2018  Till Date]

Full Suite is an integrated set of financial applications that centralize processes of Data Acquisition, Validation correction and provides enriched data in a standard format, integrates balance on contract/position/customer level, for Legal Entities of the countries where it has been implemented, without the need for further aggregation. 



Roles and Responsibility: - As a part of production support I have involved in Incident Management, Problem 

                                           Management and Change Management. Also, I have involved in checkouts/health    

                                               check of the application.



At Wipro:- (Credit Suisse Bank) :-



Real Time Settlement (RTS) :- [September 2017 -  December 2017]

RTS is an initiative to build globally consistent, entry neutral, scalable platform for Securities and Cash operations to replace the existing legacy platforms.



Roles and Responsibility: - As a part of production support I have involved in Incident Management, Problem 

                                           Management and Change Management. Also, I have involved in checkouts/health    

                                               check of the application.

At HSBC GLT:-


Project 1

Browser Main Menu (BMM) :- [June 2012  Feb 2017]

Browser Main Menu application is staff web based application. The various functionalities offered are Account Management, Transfers, Bill Payment, Printing, Mortgage, Personal Loan etc.BMM projects allows user to open an account for the customers. In addition, BMM allows users to check FATCA classification on the screen as well as generate the reports.



Roles and Responsibility:- As a part of Production Support:-

                                       1) Involved in Incident Management, Problem Management and Change Management.

                                       2) Complex issue investigation, root cause investigation and productivity ideas.

               3) Involved in crisis call and crisis chat for production support.

Project 2

Financial Planning Solutions [June 2012  Feb 2017]

Financial Planning Solutions is Staff Web based application. It helps users to create the cases for managing their portfolio as well as financial policies. In addition, Solutions are used to generate the reports based on the users policies as well as it allows document to be added to the cases.

Roles and Responsibility: - As a part of Production Support:-

                                       1) Involved in Incident Management, Problem Management and Change Management.

                                       2) Complex issue investigation, root cause investigation and productivity ideas.

               3) Involved in crisis call and crisis chat for production support.



Project 3

An Internet banking applications provided by HSBC, but are much more advanced in terms of functionalities offered and technologies used. IB offers services for both Personal Banking customers and Business Banking Customers. The various functionalities offered are Account Management, Transfers, Bill Payment, Mobile Services, Global Account View, Global Transfers, Personal Loan etc.



Global Investment Centre (GIC) is a service facilitating the order of investment product orders and the management of portfolios of those products. The service allows customers to buy, sell and switch investment funds via the internet or through telephone banking. In addition, customers have access to a set of research tools to help them decide which fund to purchase, as well as the convenience of being able to monitor their fund performance on an ongoing basis.





At Probity Soft Pvt Ltd.:-



Project 1

Citizen Facility Centre:- The main objective of this project is to develop a Common facility centre 

For Municipal Corporation for ease of people Birth, Death, Marriage and Other Certificates for the ease of citizens of the City.



Project 2

Sarva Shiksha Abhiyaan:- The main objective of this project is to develop a Common facility centre for Municipal Corporation for ease of people Birth, Death, Marriage and Other Certificates for the ease of citizens of the City.



Project 3

Property Tax:-The main objective of this project is to offers a complete solution for managing real and personal property taxes. It stores records of their customer for the region with all of its information.



                                                                                                                                      







PUBLIC

PUBLIC

PUBLIC - 3 | Page