Frances Ehlert
Cary, NC  1431942325
 


Following a return to the job market, I am now looking to secure a challenging and rewarding new role where I can put previous experience gained to best use. 

Career Break
I took around 3 years career break to take care of my child (Jan 2016 till now). During this time period, I updated my skills refreshed through courses and online learning.

Experience

COURSES (14319422252)
Recently graduated from a Software Quality Assurance Immersive program with a project-based, workshop-style practice centered on using Selenium, Java, industry-focused curriculum in manual and automated testing. 
Completed Business Analyst course with live experience in Health Care and Finance projects. 

HR Assistant, NETLOGIC SOLUTIONS (143194232)
Handled the entire gamut of HR activities effectively. 
Post job openings to online recruitment sources
Phone screen applicants and arrange employment interviews
Conduct reference checks
Keep track of candidate status and schedule follow up interview/trials
Conducted background and degree verifications on selected candidates
Perform other duties as required.


PErSONAL BANKER, Wells Fargo (1431942325)
Worked in a fast pace, high volume environment 
Sold retail banking products and services to new and existing customers
Consistently met weekly targets & Goals
Used profiling analysis tools to identify cross-sell opportunities
Made outbound sales call to increase product sales per customer ratio 
Resolved problems/conflict to ensure total customer satisfaction

BUSINESS Consultant, HSBC BANK (1431942325)
Developed and provided ongoing tracking to division-wide customer complaints about annual government audits.
Served as a liaison between company president and clients regarding client accounts and new business.
Approved travel expenses and reimbursement requests.
Collaborated with other administrative team members, human resources and the finance department on special projects and events.


Education

Master of Business Administration, Loyola College
Human Resources Management

Bachelor of Science, SRM University
Nutrition FSM & Dietetics

Skills

Business Analysis
Selenium 3
Web testing
Project Management
MS-Visio 2016
Microsoft Project 2016

WebDriver
JIRA
Requirement Management
Business Development
Agile
Teamwork and Project Management







2