Jack Cashman

Wakad, Pune 411057

jackcashman@gmail.com 

                                    +91-8145324147



Career Objective:

To succeed in an environment of growth and excellence and earn a job which provides me job satisfaction and self-development and help me achieve personal as well as organizational goals.

Professional Work Experience:



Current Organization:   Technical Lead at HCL Technologies, Pune                Oct 2018 - Present



Previous Organization:  Associate at Cognizant Technology Services, Pune    Jan 2018  Sep 2018 

                                       IT Analyst at Tata Consultancy Services, Pune       March 2012 - Jan 2018



Professional Project Summary:



Deutsche Bank:

Client: Deutsche Bank, UK

Technical skills: Oracle Pl/Sql, Unix Shell Scripting

Domain: Banking & Finance

Project Overview: TRC is a service assurance application system of DB, it manages all the inflow and Historical statistics of service request.

Roles and Responsibilities: Develop new client requirement and also improve the existing application. Write the optimized pl/sql code, extract data from feed files using SQL Loader and shell scripting. Migration of Shell scripts among Unix boxes, Deploy code through standard application. Worked on Jira application for SDLC Lifecycle, Bit Bucket to maintain Git repository.









Client Contract Initiation:

Client: Credit Suisse, Switzerland

Technical skills: Oracle Pl/Sql, Unix Shell Scripting

Domain: Banking & Finance

Project Overview: CCI is a client onboarding, Credit and legal terms negotiator system of Credit-Suisse.



Roles and Responsibilities: Develop new client requirement and also improve the existing application. Write the optimized pl/sql code, extract data from feed files using SQL Loader and shell scripting. Migration of Shell scripts among Unix boxes, Deploy code through standard IRMA application. Worked on Odyssey application for SDLC Lifecycle, Tortoise SVN for repository.



Project Commercial Managment:

Client: Internal

Technical skills: Oracle Pl/Sql

Domain: Internal

Project Overview: PCM is a TCS internal application development project. 



Roles and Responsibilities: Work on CR of CFM (Client Financial Management), develop Packages, Procedure and functions for it. Find and Analyze the TKPROOF, Optimize the Queries and estimation time of procedures.



Run The Business (Vanguard):

Client: Vanguard, U.S.

Technical Skills: Oracle, Pl/Sql, Advance functions in PL SQL, Optimization, SQL Tuning

Domain: Banking & Finance

Project Overview: Vanguard provides Finance and Investment services to its clients and TCS supports the application of Vanguard serv. Ltd.



Roles and Responsibilities: Script development of fresh requirements using Advance PL SQL and enhancements of existing features on new modules.



Cpos(Centralized Point of Services):

Client: Vodafone, India  

Technical Skills: Oracle, Pl/Sql, Advance functions in PL SQL, Unix Shell Scripting

Domain: Telecom

Project Overview: The purpose of the project is to offer end-to-end solutions for registration of new Prepaid (CIF) and Postpaid (CAF) customers of Vodafone India telecoms.

Also it allows the customers to port in for Vodafone i.e. mobile number portability (MNP) 



Roles and Responsibilities: Script development of fresh requirements using Advance PL SQL, Unix and enhancements of existing features on new modules.



CPOS Disha migration:



Project Overview: CPOS interfaces with the postpaid billing system to create new customers/subscribers and manage resources. Currently it has interface with postpaid billing system  BSCS.  This is being replaced with AMDOCS billing system.  Project Disha comprises of this entire process of transformation and migration of CPOS interface from BSCS to AMDOCS.



Roles and Responsibilities:



Prepared scripts using PL/SQL, UNIX and SQL to automate the functionality in order to reduce ongoing issues.

Preparation of programming specification and code review for database changes as per the function change request. 

SQL Query Tuning to improve Query Performance.

Support the application. (Handling of all our domestic users)

Process documentation.

Understanding of desktop, client  server and web applications architecture, design

Technical Skillset:

Programming:           PLSQL (Collections, Exception Handling, Procedures, Functions, 

                                                         Packages, Triggers, Cursors and Bulk Collect etc.),

                                         SQL Loaders, UNIX Shell Scripting, ETL, Data warehousing

Databases:                 Oracle 11G

Tools:           Toad, PLSQL Developer (RDBMS), SQL Developer, Eclipse

Automation Tool:    Control-M

Repository :              Tortoise SVN, Bit Bucket

SDLC:                          Agility, Odyssey, Jira

OS:                          Windows, Unix  











Educational Qualifications:



Rajiv Gandhi Proudyogiki Vishwavidyalaya (2007-2011),Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh                 Bachelors of Technology, Computer Science & Engineering                    70.71%

Class 12th (2007)    

SDPS School (Madhya Pradesh Board)                              75.11%

Class 10th (2005)      

SDPS School (Madhya Pradesh Board)                              68.91%



Strengths:

- Team Player

- Hard Working

- Innovative Mind

- Quick Learner