Donald Campbell

Age 25| M

Campbell.Donald@gmail.com

Mob: +980991021059





IT Professional With Career Spanning 3 Years



Profile Summary

A Bachelor of Technology (B.E) Graduate (Electronics & Telecommunication Engineering- 2014)

A dynamic IT Professional with Analytical and communication skill Over 3 years of insightful experience in IT services in the CIS having worked for reputed Pharmaceutical clients and Hospitality.

Worked closely with thetechnical teams and Support.

A Part of the CSI (Continuous service improvement) team in providing new Ideas in order to improve Services.

Adept at process definition, solution design and analysis.

Good in verbal and written Communication with out of box thinking abilities. 

A good team player with a positive attitude towards problem analysis and troubleshooting.

Skills Set            

ITSM tool                      Project ManagementApplication Monitoring 

Production Support             Report preparation & present                                          Shell scripting                                          

ITIL certified                          Ticket monitoring and FLR



Professional Experience                                  2.1 Years 

Cognizant Technology Solutions                Engineer Trainee                                                     June 2015  June 2016

Cognizant Technology Solutions              Senior System Engineer                                          June 2016  Aug 2017

Tata Consultancy Services         Senior Process Associate                                         April 2018 - Present

               

IT Proficiency                                   

Operating systems: Unix, Linux admin, Windows XP/7/8.

Tools: Control-M, Autosys. ITSM ticketing tool

Database language: Oracle11g (sql, pl/sql).

Programming language: Basics of java, unix shell scripting.  

                                                 

PROJECT DETAILS:

Project #1:

Organization: Cognizant Technology Solutions Pvt Ltd.

Project Name: Information Management and analysis (SANOFI)

Team Size: 20

Duration: September 2015 - August

Roles and Responsibilities:

Role of a Support Analyst and acted as an active link between the client and the organization.

 BMC Remedy tool for working on tickets. 

Managed schedules and collaborated with different teams working on the project

Prepared project and status reports on an ongoing basis

Prepared and Resolve Ticket (Service Requests, Incident, work orders) according to the defined process and provide solution to user.

Ensure that all customer enquiries and demands are followed up and if any expected gaps they are identified on time. 

Sound Knowledge on incident, Problem & Knowledge management.





Project#2:

Organization: Tata Consultancy Services

Domain : Travel and Hospitality

Team Size: 09

Duration: April 2018 - Present

Roles and Responsibilities:

Working on MobaXterm and Putty .

 IBM tool for working on tickets. 

Managed schedules and collaborated with different teams working on the project

Prepared project and status reports on an ongoing basis.

Providing back-end solutions to production issues, monitoring, and reporting.

Problem Solving: Perform and review health checks, identify and escalate trends. Act on all application level alerts and assist with service restoration.

Provides, or assists with, quality assurance of activities which are carried out by others.

Plan, execute and support implementations so the applications are deployed with minimal disruption to the production environment and meet established standards.





Academics

Qualification

College

Board/University

Year

Percentage

B.E(Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering)

RAJIV GANDHI COLLEGE OF ENGINEEEING


RTMNU

2014

67.39%

Intermediate

PRERNA JUNIOR COLLEGE

MAHARASHTRA BOARD

2010

60.16%

High School

TVM Nagpur


MAHARASHTRA BOARD

2008

87.69%



Certifications

ITIL 2016 foundation certification.



Awards and Appreciations

Awarded as Supernova of Sanofi for exemplary performance and valuable contribution to the Sanofi Program.



Extra-Curricular Activities

Member of Out Reach, a social group to teach the under privileged children.

Member of Green Peace India and continuous contribution and support towards environment.



Soft Skills

Excellent communication skills in English

Ability to work with minimal supervision

Ability to work in a team

Good analytical and troubleshooting skills

Aware of the document processes executed in a project

Ability to prepare various reports using excel and ppt.