Resume

Adrienne Goble

Email: 
Mobile: +91 7757861725347

Profession Summary:

Dynamic and focused Robotics Process Automation (RPA) developer with experience in Blue prism and Business Process Administrator.

Overall 2 years of experience in Logistics and Business Process Management Domain.

Have 6 months of working experience in Robotics Process Automation (RPA) Development using Blue Prism.

Business process analysis and propose automation scope for saving service cost.

Excellent knowledge in MS Excel.

Fast Learner and Efficient Team Player

Key Skills:

Blue Prism Tool

Robot Creation

Testing and Deployment of Automation

Business Process Management.

Microsoft Office Suite (word, excel, PowerPoint)

Professional Experience: Overall 2 years (from to till date)



UPS Logistics | April, 2017 to till date | Pune



Role: 

As Business Process Automation Developer, I was responsible to 

Analyze the effort intensive Business Processes.

Design and propose automation opportunity.

Implement Business Process Automation using Blue Prism.



As Business Process Administration Assistant, I was responsible to

Create, maintain and process information in database

Generating weekly revenue report for Organization.

Processing logistics transactions for international and domestic accounts

Supervise other associates and provide training





Capita India | October, 2016 to March, 2017 | Pune



Role:

As Business Process Admin, I was responsible to

Generate invoice for enterprise users.

Weekly delivery status report. 

Customer query resolution.

Academic Background:

MSc. Microbiology |Pune University |2016 |Grade: 68%

BSc. Microbiology |Pune University |2014 |Grade: 71%

Higher Secondary(12th) | Council of higher Secondary Education, Odisha |2010

Personal Snippets:



Name:

Adrienne Goble


Date of Birth:

23-June-1993

Nationality:

Indian

Language:

English, Hindi & Oriya

References: Available on request.

Declaration: I do hereby declare that the above statement given by me is true to the best of my knowledge and belief and I look for a chance to prove my competency.



Location: Pune, Maharashtra

Thank you